Newsletters: add 248 (2023-04-26) (#1094)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _topics/en/transaction-origin-privacy.md

---
title: Transaction origin privacy

## Optional.  Shorter name to use for reference style links e.g., "foo"
## will allow using the link [topic foo][].  Not case sensitive
# shortname: foo

## Optional.  An entry will be added to the topics index for each alias
#aliases:
#  - Foo

## Required.  At least one category to which this topic belongs.  See
## schema for options
categories:
  - Transaction Relay Policy
  - Privacy Enhancements
  - Privacy Problems

## Optional.  Produces a Markdown link with either "[title][]" or
## "[title](link)"
primary_sources:
    - title: "Bitcoin Wiki: Privacy---Network analysis"
      link: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Privacy#Traffic_analysis

## Optional.  Each entry requires "title" and "url".  May also use "feature:
## true" to bold entry and "date"
optech_mentions:

>   - title: "Bitcoin Core #18861 won't reply to with txes it hasn't yet announced to the requesting peer"

Author: We're (self) limited to 100 characters here.  I'll fix the typo and s/txes/transactions/, but I don't have space for mentioning `getdata`.  Happy to take other suggested rephrasings within 100 characters, though.

    url: /en/newsletters/2020/05/27/#bitcoin-core-18861

  - title: "Transcript: TxProbe: discovering Bitcoin's network topology using orphan transactions"
    url: /en/newsletters/2019/09/18/#txprobe-discovering-bitcoin-s-network-topology-using-orphan-transactions

  - title: "Bitcoin Core #14897 introduces a semi-random order when requesting transactions"

>     url: /en/newsletters/2019/02/12/#bitcoin-core-14897

Author: We did mention both of those in subsequent newsletters:

- https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2019/04/23/#bitcoin-core-15839
- https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2019/06/19/#bitcoin-core-15834

I've added 15834 to the topic as it also links to 15839 (I don't want to add both of them since they're not directly about transaction origin privacy; I do want to add one of them, though, as it's conceivable that another implementation could stumble upon the same problem).

  - title: "Bitcoin Core #19109 adds a per-peer rolling bloom filter to track recent tx announcements"
    url: /en/newsletters/2020/07/22/#bitcoin-core-19109

## Optional.  Same format as "primary_sources" above
see_also:
  - title: Anonymity networks
    link: topic anonymity networks

  - title: V2 P2P Transport
    link: topic v2 p2p transport

  - title: Dandelion
    link: topic dandelion

## Optional.  Force the display (true) or non-display (false) of stub
## topic notice.  Default is to display if the page.content is below a
## threshold word count
#stub: false

## Required.  Use Markdown formatting.  Only one paragraph.  No links allowed.
## Should be less than 500 characters
excerpt: >
  **Transaction origin privacy** is the ability to hide the origin of a
  transaction from network surveillance.
---

> If an eavesdropper can see every transaction relayed by every node, they

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If eavesdroppers can see every transaction relayed by every node, they
```
so the "they" is grammatically correct -- although I'm aware of the more recent usage, I'm old school, free free to ignore.

transaction origin privacy.  Some previous and ongoing efforts include:

- **Lightning Network:** although onchain LN transactions still need
  transaction origin privacy, offchain LN payments which are routed
  through onion-encrypted messages are more resistant to many of the
  techniques applied against onchain Bitcoin transactions.

- [Anonymity networks][topic anonymity networks]: support has been added
  to Bitcoin Core for encrypted relay of transaction and other data over
  Tor, I2P, and CJDNS.  Several other Bitcoin programs support some or
  all of these protocols.  Encryption makes it much more difficult for
  an evesdropper to reliably determine the origin of a transaction.

- [v2 P2P transport][topic v2 p2p transport]: this protocol will provide
  native encryption of transaction and other data for Bitcoin programs.

- [Dandelion][topic dandelion]: this protocol will allow a node which
  did not originate a transaction to be the first to publicly broadcast
  it, potentially making it much more difficult to determine the actual
  origin.  Dandelion will be much more effective if it is combined with

>   encryption, either naively or through anonymity networks.

Reviewer 2: I thought that Dandelion has basically been given up on, since the DoS vectors it introduces could not be efficiently mitigated. From what I understand, all the concerns described by sdaftuar in this [BSE post](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/81504/5406) still apply

Author: There was discussion in bitcoin-core-dev IRC recently about "[one-hop dandelion](https://www.erisian.com.au/bitcoin-core-dev/log-2023-04-22.html#l-76)", which (I just learned) means having the origination node announce the transaction over an anonymity network (e.g. Tor) but not store it in its own mempool until it receives it from the P2P network.  In other words, to announce the transaction using an ephemeral identity and then act like any other node when it later sees that transaction.

Should that properly be called "dandelion"?  I dunno.  But it seems like dandelion is still a concept that several developers are thinking about, so I think it's beneficial to list it as something for new learners.
